Do you like mysteries or puzzles?
What about secrets?
Are you good at keeping honorable secrets confidential?
Jehovah had a secret that he kept for about 4,000 years.
Unlike human secrets which often are difficult to keep confidential,
Jehovah's sacred secret would be revealed only by divine revelation.
In other words, Jehovah would reveal the details only in his due time.
Proverbs 25 verse 2 says,
It is the glory of God to keep a matter of secret.
What's the secret we're talking about?
It's related to the first prophecy recorded in the Bible,
found at Genesis chapter 3 verse 15.
How would Jehovah fix the damage caused by the rebellion in the Garden of Eden?
Jehovah said to the serpent who deceived Eve,
and I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your offspring and her offspring.
He will crush your head and you will strike him in the heel.
What an intriguing prophecy.
It was spoken some 6,000 years ago,
but its meaning affects each one of us,
and every person who has ever lived,
who was behind the voice of the serpent,
who was the woman.
Eve might have thought that she was,
because when she later gave birth to Cain,
she said at Genesis 4 verse 1,
I have produced a male child with the help of Jehovah,
but Eve was not the woman of the prophecy.
Jehovah's secret was still a secret,
who was the offspring of the woman.
If Eve thought it was Cain, she was sadly disappointed.
Jehovah would reveal these details according to his timetable,
long after Adam and Eve died.
We might compare the revealing of Jehovah's sacred secret to this puzzle box.
It's locked and seems impossible to open.
However, a series of steps leads to opening the box
and revealing the treasure inside.
Those steps are like the details that led to identifying
the promised offspring of the woman.
What were some of those details?
Over 2,000 years after the prophecy in Eden,
Jehovah made a promise to the faithful man Abraham
that provided a piece of the puzzle.
What did Jehovah say?
We find his words at Genesis 22 verses 17 and 18.
I will surely bless you,
and I will surely multiply your offspring
like the stars of the heavens and like the grains of sand on the seashore,
and your offspring will take possession of the gate of his enemies.
And by means of your offspring,
all nations of the earth will obtain a blessing for themselves.
Wow.
Jehovah revealed the first detail to unlock his sacred secret.
Abraham must have been amazed when he looked up to the heavens
and saw thousands of stars.
Although Abraham would not see the complete fulfillment of the promise
in his lifetime,
it certainly would be fulfilled at a future time
by the God who does not lie.
Jehovah repeated the promise to Abraham's son Isaac
and to Isaac's son Jacob.
Jacob in his deathbed prophecy said at Genesis 4910
that the scepter would not depart from Judah.
So we learned that kingship is involved
and that the promised offspring would come through Judah's line.
Later, Jehovah provided the mosaic law to help protect the nation of Israel
and the promised offspring.
What was the next significant detail to be revealed?
In 1070 BCE, Judah's descendant David became king over all Israel.
David was a man agreeable to Jehovah's heart
and Jehovah promised to raise up someone in David's royal line
who would rule forever.
The promise is recorded at 2 Samuel 7 verses 12 and 13.
I will raise up your offspring after you, your own son,
and I will firmly establish his kingdom.
I will firmly establish the throne of his kingdom forever
where one step closer to identifying the promised offspring.
The offspring would come through David's line.
Although David's son Solomon had a peaceful reign,
he was not the king who would rule forever.
That king would appear in the future at Jehovah's appointed time.
Of course, the devil didn't want the promised offspring of the woman to appear.
So he repeatedly tried to eliminate or contaminate the lineage to the offspring.
However, Jehovah made sure that the devil failed in his attempts.
Down through the centuries, Jehovah through his prophets
provided specific details regarding the promised offspring.
For instance, the prophet Micah foretold that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem.
Daniel's prophecy of the 70 weeks of years indicated the exact year
when the Messiah would appear.
Also Isaiah's prophecy revealed that the offspring would die a sacrificial death.
Jehovah was progressively revealing details about his sacred secret.
Centuries later, in the year 2 BCE,
the angel Gabriel appeared to a Jewish virgin named Mary
and made a startling declaration to her.
Would you like to know what it is?
It's found at Luke 1 verses 31 through 33.
Look, you will become pregnant and give birth to a son
and you are to name him Jesus.
This one will be great and will be called son of the most high.
And Jehovah God will give him the throne of David, his father.
And he will rule as king over the house of Jacob forever.
And there will be no end to his kingdom.
Both Mary and Jesus' adoptive father, Joseph, were descendants of David.
So Jesus received both the natural and the legal rights of an heir of David.
Can you imagine what might have been going through Mary's mind
after hearing those words?
Did she perhaps remember hearing similar details from the book of Moses
about the promised offspring?
Of course, about nine months later, when Jesus was born,
Jehovah's angel appeared to shepherds who were tending their flocks near Bethlehem.
The angel announced, as recorded in Luke chapter 2,
today there was born to you in David's city, a savior, who was Christ the Lord.
After thousands of years, Jehovah was giving notice
that his sacred secret would soon be revealed.
The shepherds went and told Mary and Joseph about this divine message.
The word about the Christ was spreading.
About 30 years later, in the days of John the baptizer,
the people were in expectation.
And all of them were reasoning in their hearts about John.
May he perhaps be the Christ?
A short time later, Jesus the Nazarene came to John to be baptized.
After Jesus came up out of the water,
Jehovah anointed him with holy spirit and said,
this is my son, the beloved.
At long last, the promised offspring of Genesis 315 had arrived.
Humble Jews readily responded to Jesus' teachings in ministry,
but there were many more details about the sacred secret yet to be revealed,
like the many facets of a beautiful crystal.
During his ministry, Jesus himself identified the serpent as Satan,
and the serpent's offspring as those who display the devil's characteristics.
Jesus also revealed, as recorded in Luke 22 verses 28 through 30,
that there would be a secondary part of the woman's offspring.
Spirit anointed Christians who will rule with Christ in heaven.
Later, the Apostle Paul identified the woman of the prophecy
as the heavenly part of Jehovah's organization
made up of faithful spirit creatures.
Of course, the enmity foretold at Genesis 3 verse 15 continues into our day.
The devil and his offspring continued to wage war with the remaining ones
of the woman's offspring on earth.
But what did the Messiah accomplish while he was on the earth?
The Jews were hoping that he would bring liberation from Roman oppression.
However, Daniel's prophecy indicated that the Messiah would be cut off
or put to death.
This corresponded to the striking in the heel mentioned at Genesis 3 verse 15.
Still, Jehovah also revealed at Psalm 16 verse 10
that his son would not be left in the grave.
True to his promise, Jehovah resurrected Jesus less than three days after his death.
Of course, a principal part of Jehovah's sacred secret
involved the Messianic kingdom of which Christ would be king.
While Jesus was on earth, he cured the sick.
He fed the hungry and resurrected the dead,
things that will do on a far greater scale as king of God's kingdom.
After Jesus ascended to heaven, many additional details
about God's sacred secret were revealed in the writings
we now know as the Christian Greek scriptures.
Colossians 2 verse 3 says,
carefully concealed in him or Christ are all the treasures of wisdom and of knowledge.
When did the sacred secret come to its finish?
Revelation 10 verse 7 says that it would occur in the days when the seventh angel
is about to blow his trumpet.
When did that take place?
Let's note the answer at Revelation 11 verse 15.
The seventh angel blew his trumpet
and there were loud voices in heaven saying,
the kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ
and he will rule as king forever and ever.
This occurred in 1914 when Christ Jesus became king of God's kingdom.
But is that the end?
No.
The Revelation provides additional details regarding God's kingdom and future events
that most people would consider shocking.
For example, Revelation 19 verses 11 through 16
reveals that Christ Jesus, the king of kings and Lord of lords,
will strike the nations and shepherd them with a rod of iron.
As king of God's kingdom, Jesus will soon crush all human governments
and hurl the devil into an abyss of inactivity.
This will lead to 1,000 years of peace.
At the end of the thousand years,
the devil will be released from the abyss for a short time.
And then the final fulfillment of Genesis 3 verse 15 will occur.
The offspring of the woman will crush the head of the devil.
How does all of this affect us?
We're privileged to know about God's sacred secret,
which he kept secret for some 4,000 years.
Some of the details Jehovah has helped his people to understand only in recent decades.
Yes, Jehovah has made known to us the sacred secret of his will.
During this broadcast, we have considered only a few facets of God's sacred secret.
Why not make it a project for personal or family worship?
It's thrilling to think about kingdom realities
and how Jehovah will completely undo the effects of Satan's rebellion.
Christ Jesus now rules as king in the heavens
and the days for this evil system of things under Satan's domination are numbered.
Jesus will soon strike the nations with the rod of iron
and then transform the earth into a beautiful paradise.
What does Jehovah want us to do with his sacred secret?
Should we put it back into the box?
Buried in the ground?
No, Jehovah wants us to make it known.
The sacred secret is now being proclaimed in over 1,000 languages.
Are you having a full share?
Deep appreciation for this sacred secret
and all that it means for the future will impell us to share it with as many people as possible.
When the Apostle Paul wrote to Christians in Ephesus,
he requested of them as recorded at Ephesians 6 verse 19.
Pray also for me
that the words may be given to me when I open my mouth
so that I may be able to speak boldly and making known the sacred secret of the good news.
That's our prayer for you, dear brothers and sisters,
that we all may continue to declare Jehovah's sacred secret with boldness.